CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

# Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

In all our actions, we strive for excellence, and to be kind to others.

We are committed to a **harassment-free environment** for all. We will not tolerate any form of harassment or acts of aggression (micro or otherwise), whether idenitfied below or not.

## The responsibilities we each commit to

We value the participation of every member of our community, with the primary responsibilities defined as per below:
- **Members who have experienced oppression of any kind** - your primary responsibility is to engage effectively in order to educate and inform.
- **Members who hold any position of power** - your primary responsibility here is to listen, learn and adjust your behaviours in daily life accordingly. 
- **All members** are responsible for moderating the conversation, including publicly standing up against any behaviours deemed to be oppressive, discriminatory or otherwise against the values enshrined in this code of conduct.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

* Using welcoming and inclusive language (for discussion, see issue #1)
* Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
* Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
* Focusing on what is best for the community
* Showing empathy towards other community members
* Publicly calling out behaviours that contribute to oppression of any kind. Only by publicly identifying these behaviours can we hope to build a truly welcoming environment, in which positive behaviours are encouraged and negative actions are corrected.

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

Please allow a reasonable response time to any incident. Whilst the community moderator(s) endeavour to act in as timely a manner as possible, we all operate within our own energy and time limits, and ask that members of the community respect these human needs and barriers. We welcome new contributors to the community moderation effort.

**Participants asked to stop or correct a behaviour are asked to comply immediately.**

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the project or its community. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting Naomi on [github or gitter](www.github.com/npscience) or [by private message](mailto:globalinclusivity@gmail.com) in the first instance, before a community moderator team is established (**I'm seeking volunteers. Please see issue #2**). The community moderators will review and investigate all complaints, and will respond in a way that she deems appropriate to the circumstances. The community moderators is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident. Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other members of the project's leadership.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage], version 1.4, available at [http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4][version], and is further inspired by the codes contributed to the open science community by [Kirstie Whitaker](www.github.com/kirstiejane) and [Bastian Greshanke](www.github.com/gedankenstuecke), and by [this blogpost](https://ironholds.org/not-about-image/) by [Oliver Keyes](www.twitter.com/kopshtik).

[homepage]: http://contributor-covenant.org
[version]: http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/

Commit message:

Change responsibility of anyone oppressed
I originally asked anyone who had been oppressed to contribute by taking on responsibility of educating and informing, but this was phrased too much like a demand and without any acknowledgement of cost. To being to address this, I have rephrased and made an attempt to offer recompensation in kind (e.g. by contributions to the contributor's own projects).

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

# Code of Conduct

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

In all our actions, we strive for excellence, and to be kind to others.

We are committed to a **harassment-free environment** for all. We will not tolerate any form of harassment or acts of aggression (micro or otherwise), whether idenitfied below or not.

## The responsibilities we each commit to

We value the participation of every member of our community, with the primary responsibilities defined as per below:
- **Members who hold any position of power** - your primary responsibility here is to engage, listen to others, learn and adjust your behaviours in daily life accordingly. 
- **Members who have experienced oppression of any kind** - *if you feel you are in a position to do so*, please engage effectively in order to educate and inform. If you feel your contributions require recompensation in kind, please say so publicly or privately to Naomi (@npscience on gitter and twitter, or by [email](mailto:globalinclusivity.com)).
- **All members** are responsible for moderating the conversation, including publicly standing up against any behaviours deemed to be oppressive, discriminatory or otherwise against the values enshrined in this code of conduct.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment include:

* Using welcoming and inclusive language (for discussion, see issue #1)
* Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences
* Gracefully accepting constructive criticism
* Focusing on what is best for the community
* Showing empathy towards other community members
* Publicly calling out behaviours that contribute to oppression of any kind. Only by publicly identifying these behaviours can we hope to build a truly welcoming environment, in which positive behaviours are encouraged and negative actions are corrected.

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

* The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or advances
* Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks
* Public or private harassment
* Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
* Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting

## Our Responsibilities

Project maintainers are responsible for clarifying the standards of acceptable behavior and are expected to take appropriate and fair corrective action in response to any instances of unacceptable behavior.

Project maintainers have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are not aligned to this Code of Conduct, or to ban temporarily or permanently any contributor for other behaviors that they deem inappropriate, threatening, offensive, or harmful.

Please allow a reasonable response time to any incident. Whilst the community moderator(s) endeavour to act in as timely a manner as possible, we all operate within our own energy and time limits, and ask that members of the community respect these human needs and barriers. We welcome new contributors to the community moderation effort.

**Participants asked to stop or correct a behaviour are asked to comply immediately.**

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the project or its community. Examples of representing a project or community include using an official project e-mail address, posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed representative at an online or offline event. Representation of a project may be further defined and clarified by project maintainers.

## Enforcement

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported by contacting Naomi on [github or gitter](www.github.com/npscience) or [by private message](mailto:globalinclusivity@gmail.com) in the first instance, before a community moderator team is established (**I'm seeking volunteers. Please see issue #2**). The community moderators will review and investigate all complaints, and will respond in a way that she deems appropriate to the circumstances. The community moderators is obligated to maintain confidentiality with regard to the reporter of an incident. Further details of specific enforcement policies may be posted separately.

Project maintainers who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in good faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other members of the project's leadership.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the [Contributor Covenant][homepage], version 1.4, available at [http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4][version], and is further inspired by the codes contributed to the open science community by [Kirstie Whitaker](www.github.com/kirstiejane) and [Bastian Greshanke](www.github.com/gedankenstuecke), and by [this blogpost](https://ironholds.org/not-about-image/) by [Oliver Keyes](www.twitter.com/kopshtik).

[homepage]: http://contributor-covenant.org
[version]: http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/
